Known non-bugs:
---------------

* Secret scenario warp at the end of "The Elf versus Goliath" is disabled as the secret scenario
  WML and map are still absent.

* Secret scenario warp at the end of "Innuendo" is disabled as the secret scenario WML and map are
  not finished yet.

* Some scenarios, specially of the last part, contain enemies that may respawn indefinitely if you
  try (mistakenly) to defeat them. Please, bear in mind that as a general rule for this campaign,
  you are not supposed to defeat all enemies unless the objectives summary clearly states so.
  Attempting to do so may get you stuck in some scenarios. Id est, this is *not* a bug.

Known engine bugs:
------------------

* Damage floating labels ocassionally don't display over units of the Elvish Warrior Spirit
  line when they result harmed during a fight. It seems to be related with an unusual delay
  pre- and post- attack animations when attacking units affected by these spirits' terror ability.
  NOTE: the latter should be fixed in releases newer than 1.9.0.

  NOTE2: the absent damage labels are fixed in Wesnoth 1.4.1+svn already. Thanks boucman for his
  help.

* Location-mapped sound sources in scenarios "Arrival..." and "Under the Sands" (amongst other
  possible cases) are discarded after loading from a saved game that is not the scenario stub.
  This is possibly because the sound source mappings are declared within prestart WML events,
  which are by design discarded in saved games.

Known bugs:
-----------

* The wmlindent and wmllint tools may mangle certain WML constructs; this is known, and the
  author intends to make this campaign compatible with these mainline maintenance tools
  in the close future. As a workaround for the time being, the maintainer should resist
  to let wmllint run unattended, and keep backups before changes or use wmllint -d previously
  to check the changes the tool wants to make for any possible side-effects.

* Scenario "Dawn of the Great War" causes the game to look like frozen after the initial
  dialogue, just before the player regains control and the new objectives get displayed;
  this is known to happen at least on openSUSE 10.3 x86_64 kernel 2.6.22.5-31-default
  with Wesnoth 1.4+SVN, without optimizations. Possibly does not affect official binaries
  or anything else that was compiled with optimizations.
  The game seems to freeze for about 10 seconds.

* Some units may not display properly if haloes are disabled in the game preferences;
  this is due to the way they are extended over more space than it could fit one hex,
  as a workaround to an engine limitation. I hope we can work it out in Wesnoth 1.5.x.
  Affected units include: Faerie Spirit, Verlissh Matrix Core, Verlissh Matrix Flowsystem.

* Some Chaos faction units seem to "pop out" during fight; this is caused by a mixture of
  both deprecated animation frames and a modern standing frame. Id est, those deprecated
  animation frames must be updated.

Note that here are listed only those bugs that are known by the author, and that have not been
fixed in this release; usually there are still more bugs to be found, and most of them are fixed
before a new release is made, thus don't get to be listed in this file.


Reporting new bugs on officially released versions:
---------------------------------------------------

Sometimes, you may come across an already reported bug, a bug that was already fixed in a newer
release of the campaign, or something that looks like a bug to you but actually is not, or at
least not on the eyes of the author and maintainers. To make sure you are not falling into any
of the later cases, please always download the latest version of this campaign, check if it is
already mentioned in the BUGS file, and try to reproduce the bug.

It is good practice, often ignored, to try to reproduce the bug in other campaigns, preferably
mainline, or with an isolated case of WML code (if you know what it is). This can help us
optimize the bug fixing procedure by discriminating bugs that are specific to this campaign
or that are actually caused by the game engine. The test scenario (/data/scenario-test.cfg) is
also a good place for quick testing of bugs which are not related to the campaign mechanism
(i.e. it doesn't depend on advancing scenarios, etc.). Debug-mode commands are a great help in
any case (:debug).

If you happen to find a new bug that is specific to this campaign, please report it as soon as
possible at www.wesnoth.org/forum/, Scenario & Campaign dev. subforum, thread "Invasion from the
Unknown", with as much information as possible to help us find the cause and fix the bug.

In the case that the bug could be reproduced in other campaigns/with isolated and proper WML,
you should report it with relevant information at www.wesnoth.org/forum/, Technical Support
subforum; you might as well submit the issue to bugs.wesnoth.org, but ONLY if you are certain
that it is a real bug in the game engine itself; you should always contact the campaign author
for checking it first, before posting in the Technical Support forum.


Reporting new bugs on SVN non-release revisions:
------------------------------------------------
*** skip this section if you have no idea what SVN means and/or what it has to do in this
    context ***

Aha, you spotted a bug in a svn revision of the campaign! Good boy/girl, you always walking on
the bleeding edge. There are several specific cave-ats to this situation:

* Those who develop this campaign actively should never commit broken stuff to svn in the first
  place, but if they inadvertely do, odds are that they'll shortly notice and commit a new
  fixed revision.

* The delay could be of a few hours, or a couple of days at most. If you notice that the bug is
  not fixed after that time, you should notify Shadow Master or ESR by one of the following
  media:

  * By IRC: #wesnoth-umc-dev @ freenode.net (it is possible that neither of them are there
    at certain hours)
  * Via forum personal-messaging: "Shadow Master" at www.wesnoth.org/forum/

* You could also post it in the relevant forum thread; the only problem with doing so is that
  you could confuse causal players by spewing svn technicisms in there. :-) So avoid posting
  it in the forums for everyone's knowledge (and despair) if possible.


Contacting the Author:
----------------------

Please do not e-mail me for anything related to the campaign; I usually get my inbox filled with
many messages (not including the daily 500+ spam messages I get too) and cannot examine one by one.
Therefore, forum personal messaging is preferred, but *ONLY* if you really need to talk with me
directly. You should PM "Shadow Master" in such a case.

-- Ignacio R. Morelle
