----------------------------------------------------------
INVASION FROM THE UNKNOWN / ARMAGEDDON: CAST OF CHARACTERS
----------------------------------------------------------

This is a definitive profile list for characters in Invasion from the Unknown.
Although some of them might be present in other campaigns, including mainline,
the intention here is to demonstrate a certain degree of evolvement of
themselves, which is specially important for this campaign, where the plot takes
a crucial part in its development as a continued history and as a WML product by
itself.

MASSIVE SPOILERS WARNING!
MASSIVE SPOILERS WARNING!
MASSIVE SPOILERS WARNING!
MASSIVE SPOILERS WARNING!

Don't come back crying and shouting that no one warned you before.

NOTE: this text is optimized for view in VT100-like terminals with 80 columns.
If you are using a graphical user interface to view this file, make sure word
wrapping is disabled or the text will be laid out in a really awkward fashion.


1. THE GOOD
-----------

1.1. Galas (Elvish Fighter -> *)
--------------------------------

He is basically a young boy that grew up admiring this father's deeds in battle
defending their home valley against intruders, until a fateful day in which a
stray missile crushed his craneum, causing him a brief but painful death. Galas
trained hard since then and got himself involved in the defense patrols, to the
point where he got a leading rank in one of the parties that was in charge of the
southern frontiers. He also developed a "cold" personality and behavior,
becoming a notable leader, and getting revenge on his father's murderers with
time.

Later, after the point which this campaign begins, his hidden nightmares
become true with the arrival of the Chaos hordes. He turns into a doubtful boy
yet again and loses his natural leadership, which is forced to be kept alive by
Anlindë, his adopted mother, who pushes him into the difficult position of
deciding the future of the elven kind.

After meeting Elynia in scenario 10, he somehow finds himself thinking weird
things about her; he later discovers he has fallen in love with her.

In scenario 11, Galas finds himself yet again in a difficult and fateful
situation; Anlindë, his adoptive mother, decides to sacrifice herself as a
distraction for the enemy while the elves and dwarves escape the sieged New 
Knalga. He would have gone into panic if it wasn't for Elynia's wise words.

After assuming the events, and adapting to the new scheme, Galas recovers his
leadership and leads the party to the Grand Council with the men of Aragwaith
in scenario 14. After Erathan, a human ranger, joins the party, Galas basically
enforces his leadership by taking decissions without having to listen
instructions or suggestions as he did when Anlindë was around, and by imposing
them over the human's advice.

In scenario 20, he realizes that he is no longer alone in the world, and that
Elynia, Mal Keshar, and even Erathan are willing to follow him to the end of
the world if necessary to accomplish the mission that Anlindë enforced on him:
save the Elvish race.

In scenario 22-B and C, he takes Argan's place as Elynia's companion and
fiancée, basically because Argan himself asked him to do so before dying to
never return.

Physical attributes:
* He is very young, almost a boy, but still a capable and ocassionally fierce
  and frightening warrior.
* Hair: blonde
* Eyes: blue
* Height: average for his age

Details available from:
* Shadow Master/ShikadiLord


1.2. Elynia (Lady of Light - illuminates / Sylvan Faerie - no illumination)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

She enters the group after scenario 10, and has a secondary role in dialogues
although her importance to the mission is the highest.

Nobody knows whence or why she came to Wesnoth, but her arrival should have
taken place around 1046 YW, when the races of the Great Continent. allied to
defeat a dark sorcerer who seized the throne of Wesnoth and built the first
Empire.

Very little is known about her past; she probably was an elvish maiden
before, who achieved the status of Elvish Shyde, and got blessed by the Union(1)
later; at the end, she is more tightly bound to her faerie side rather than
elven. As a side-effect, her appearance is eternally youthful.

Evidence indicates that she has a certain level of necromantic powers.

There is a small hint about her obscure origin, during the fight against the
Shadow Master. Dialog fragment follows:

- Elynia: I am being serious. Mal Keshar, let's finish with this once and for
  all!
- Mal Keshar: As you command, my lady. Let's do it.
- Argan/Shadow Master: I was the one who granted you life in first place, when
  you were nothing. I sacrificed everything for you, and this is how you pay!?
  No... no! If you really want to suffer the same fate of others, to be enslaved
  by my power, then so be it. You have chosen it, and the Union cannot save
  you... not without me!

Her melancholic face clearly denotes the knowledge she possesses and the many
trials she must have passed to achieve it. Still, she shall not reveal any of
that knowledge to anyone except the few ones she trusts. Besides that, her
whimsical behavior exceeds that of most faeries at times.

Her dress is slightly ragged and some leaves and twigs are usually found
embedded in her pale, long hair. All of these are consequences of her living in
the wilderness rather than in elvish palaces or something like normal wood
elves.

Although she has dragonfly wings, she stands on ground most of the time when it
is possible. Her agility with the staff as a melee weapon is remarkable... or
remarked, actually (cf. scenario 11 "Strike on New Knalga").

Most physical features should be depicted in her custom sprite, drawn by Shadow
Master (i.e. the Wesnoth developer, not the Wesnoth character :-) )

Her primary ranged attack changes from arcane flame (power of Light) to simple
magic fire after the Union is removed from her. This is a gameplay choice and
it does not mean she did not have the power of Fire before.

Similarly, she has extra abilities and weapon specials that are not used in the
game.

Physical attributes:
* Eyes: red - orange
* Hair: very pale in the red - rose range; very long (refer to sprite)
* Youthful overall appearance, usually melancholic

Details available from:
* Shadow Master/ShikadiLord

1.2.1. Elynia's staff

Elynia wields a staff most of the time. As can be seen in the sprite, this staff
has a crystal top. As part of the plot in After the Storm (sequel to IftU yet
to be developed), this staff's top is actually the Ruby of Fire, the jewel at
the core of Wesnoth's Scepter of Fire.

This is a good plot element that I didn't notice I had within reach before. In
Under the Burning Suns, Elyssa the Mage speaks repeteadly about the existence
of the Scepter of Fire in the Wesnoth history. In IftU, Elynia mentions while
telling the story of the Fall, that she tried to advise the Emperor of Wesnoth
not to decree the creation of the Third Sun. This gives space for expansion:
she could actually been a recurrent advisor to the Crown - but why would she?
What did she have to do with Wesnoth and why did she care about their safety?

See Appendix A.1.3.

1.2.2. Elynia's curse

Not mentioned in IftU, Elynia once fought against a powerful necromancer, who
almost destroyed northern Wesnoth (FIXME: Gwiti Ha'atel???). When she defeated
him, the necromancer casted a curse upon her.

See Appendix A.1.4 and A.1.5.


1.3. Mal Keshar (VeryVery Ancient Lich)
---------------------------------------

He enters the group after scenario 3, initially serving as some sort of
mercenary; he was willing to help them find Elynia, but never thought that their
journey would remind him of his difficult past. At the start his power was
superseded by Anlindë's, but later he would had many oportunities of slaying the
elves, which he didn't use. Soon he would find himself taking care of Galas as a
friend, a situation which neither probably ever imagined. It is very likely that
Galas reminded him of the times he was a small and unsecure child - see Malin
Keshar in Descent into Darkness.

Albeit the long time passed since he turned into a lich, scarce trails of
decomposed flesh and hair are still left in his head.

He inadvertently admits in a moment of confusion(2) that Elynia's beauty is
overwhelming for him. In the end, he sticks to her side and joins her journey
to search for answers as to what happened.

Details available from:
* Baufo


1.4. Anlindë (Elvish Sorceress-special -> Enchantress-special -> Sylph-special)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An ancient* elven sage, she has lived for very long time (centuries). Nobody
knows how or why, but it is rumored that it has something to do with her
participation in the Wesmere War by the side of the demon-lord Zhangor. Most of 
the time in this campaign she has a very maternal attitude towards Galas, but she
used to get angry when he attempted to dig back into her past before Elynia
revealed it in scenario 10. She's the first one to give Mal Keshar a second
chance.

Physical features: black hair, green eyes, average size for her age

* i.e. she should look like old or something


1.5. Erathan (Aragwaith Strongbow -> Slayer/Greatbow)
-----------------------------------------------------

Possibly Shadow/Wayfarer or Noyga know better than I what an Aragwaithi
should look like. But in any case, his psychological profile is this.

He usually has a peaceful and serious look, but is easily angered by anyone who
contradicts him. Although in the beginning he was very harsh to Elynia and
Galas, mostly because a love affair he had with a faerie, mentioned in this
campaign, with time and in the end he befriends them.


1.6. Igor (Wolf Rider -> *)
---------------------------

This is our generic sidekick, a Goblin Wolf Rider. He should look... goblin,
rude, rusty. The wolvie's face does not need to appear in the portrait.


1.7. Althurin (Dwarvish Runemaster -> Dwarvish Arcanister)
----------------------------------------------------------

A young dwarven runesmith, the best of all that live in this time. Courageous
and smart, he acts in the manner of his elders, rather than other fellow young
dwarves. We can consider him a modern runesmith version of Angarthing (from The
Hammer of Thursagan campaign by ESR).


1.9. King Asthorgar (Dwarvish Lord/King)
----------------------------------------

He's a descendant (greatgrandson) of King Thurongar (the king on UtBS).
- no other features defined -


1.10. Lédinor (Elvish Lord -> High Lord)
----------------------------------------

He is not a relative of Galas, strictly speaking. He is just the last of a
dinasty who formerly ruled the Northern elvish forests (descendants of Kalenz?!?).

He is at an advanced age. Unlike Anlindë, he has no great magic powers whatsoever.

Towards the end of the campaign, the party finds him in the dungeon of the main
keep, starving to death.



2. THE BAD
----------

2.1. Argan (Master Drone/Master of Darkness)
--------------------------------------------

Until the final clash, it is not known that he is the Shadow Master; in fact,
that nickname is not mentioned until scenario 20 (Dawn of the Great War).

When he and Elynia went to explore the caverns underground, an earthquake
cracked the floor, and Argan fell down to the depths. He was then somehow found
by Uria (the Mother of Inferno). She reconstructed his agonizing body and
constrained his soul to this part-metal, part-living body by means of unholy
magic and technology. Nobody knows what Uria did to his mind in the process to
convert him into a blood-thirsty abomination that wants to bring the Inferno to
the real plane ("the process" referred to by a character in scenario 16
"Arrival of the Battalion").

Physical features: there is nothing or no one left, other than Elynia's eyes,
that saw him in his living form. In this campaign, we see just his biomechanical
body covered by armor and robes (cf his sprite), and his face is usually seen as
a pair of glowing yellow eyes under the shadow of his hood; sometimes we can see
the real metallic mask beneath the hood. But it is not until the final fight
that we get to see what lies beneath that mask:

"With those words, as he pronounced them, he lifted his mask from his face, and
let it fall to the floor, breaking to pieces, producing the only sound that
could be heard, as all the present people looked in dread the face of their
probable fate. Beneath the metallic mask was Argan, not the Shadow Master. But
he was no longer a living one, a natural being. His face had various metallic
objects embedded, and his skin was mostly gone, except for a few traces of it,
and his hair. Be it not for the conversation taking place at that moment, one
would think it was just a larger Shaxthal drone. And what lied beneath his
robes, by taking a single look at his face, was obvious. Argan, the Master of
Darkness, was proved to be the Shadow Master." [...]

- Argan: You are just feeding me, fools!
- Galas: Then what blasted thing is your body made of?!
- Argan: Uria dismantled my original body, and rebuilt it to be stronger and
  deadlier, to serve her cause as his blessed messenger of Chaos. No one can
  oppose me now, and those who dare think of doing so, end like the drones
  around you.
- Elynia: So, you, yourself, did this monstrousity to them?
- Argan: Aye, but they are nothing more than cheap imitations of my own body's
  design. I am far more powerful than any of them. Do you see now, that in this
  world all that is natural is destined to perish eventually, but that my arts
  can allow us to enlengthen the life-span of beings, without going through the
  decay and foul consequences of necromancy?

He is the last major enemy boss.

2.1.1. Origins

Unknown. Evidence indicates he does not pertain to any race of the Great
Continent.

2.1.2. Relation to Elynia

They met for the first time when Elynia commanded a group of wisemen to defeat a
necromancer who threatened to take over the kingdom of Wesnoth. He saved her
when she was badly injured by the necromancer whom she pursued.


2.2. Elyssa (Chaos Warlord, Shaxthal Warlord)
---------------------------------------------

We first met her in Under the Burning Suns, as a wayfarer mage of Fire. She used
to seek historic remnants of the Empire of Wesnoth, so in those wanderings
she must have found something evil that led her to meet Uria. She was turned
into a demon by her, taking advantage of her fair powers.

As Argan's case, Elyssa was converted into a shaxthal by artificial means,
retaining her power and enlengthening her lifespan indefinitely.

The first time she appears in Invasion from the Unknown is in "Face your Fate",
to fight Anlindë as the leader of the assault forces taking over Knalga. The
elvish sorceress is defeated, but not without causing severe damage to Elyssa
after causing the cavern to collapse. Elyssa is salvaged and reconstructed
again, and is called upon by the Shadow Master to defend the stronghold at the
Heart when he detects the presence of Galas and his band in within the Empire's
frontiers.

She fights Elynia and Mal Keshar, who summon the power of the Union and swiftly
defeat her. However, Elynia spares her life, and she escapes from the Heart.
After Shadow Master's death, she takes military control of the forces of Chaos.

She is one of the major enemy bosses in IftU.

Details available from:
* Mist/Cycholka


2.3. Mal Hekuba (Ancient Lich)
------------------------------

We first met him in Under the Burning Suns, as part of the Iron Council, when he
was still a living necromancer. Now we face him again, this time as an Ancient
Lich. In general, he should look 10 times more evil than Mal Keshar, and more
deteriorated therefore. His true power comes from his many minions, amongst
which are the spirit of many Quenoth rebels (see UtBS scenario "Blood is Thicker
than Water") who blindfully follow him.

He is a recurring enemy, yet not a boss strictly speaking. Unlike others, he
survives the events of this campaign.

Details available from:
* Mist/Cycholka


2.4. The Armageddon Imp
-----------------------

This is a generic unit, but most of its appearances are as an enemy boss or
miniboss. His primary weapons are his poisonous saliva (ranged) and a big blade
with arcane powers (melee) that can drain the life force of his victims.

Rarely speaking.

See also the Imp class in section 3.3.

Details available from:
* Shadow Master/ShikadiLord


2.5. The Mechanical Goliath
---------------------------

Just a colossal droid. It appears as an enemy boss in scenario 7, and later as
a recurring miniboss. The sprite should say it all.

Almost never speaking, except for a mechanical "DIE!!!" shout. ;-)

Details available from:
* Shadow Master/ShikadiLord




3. THE UGLY
-----------

This is the list of generic units from major factions which may do well with
portraits, but are not strictly required.


3.1. Shaxthals
--------------

At least Protector, Sentry and Assault Drones could have portraits. They rarely
speak - they are biomechanical beasts. However, to scare the player, it'd be
good to have some portraits...

This is a description of their biology/technology taken from scenario 23A
("Interim"):

"The earliest modern Shaxthal design is basically a mundane creature covered in
 armor, though mangled, rid of its limbs and tail, when applicable. An onboard
 computer is embedded into its brain and controls it with the help of a
 neurointerface. However, this model was deprecated due to its high maintenance
 and development costs.

 Instead, a basic genetic template for modifying, or even creating, living
 creatures to use them as the biological basis of Shaxthal lifeforms was
 designed. It involves fixating metallic elements into several proteins used to
 develop an exoskeleton during the larvary stage of their life cycles. It may
 be hardened and turned into an armor as needed (the best examples of this
 technique being the deadly air and ground Assault Drones).

 This new design allows for easy reproduction and control of the creatures.
 Their nerve system is genetically modified to be partially and remotely
 controlled when necessary, but the hard-coded instincts in their DNA are
 intended to serve most general purposes automatically, without need of direct
 intervention on the creatures.

 Shaxthal lifeforms are raised in specially built reticuli where they get all
 the necessary support for their development. The creatures' adaptability should
 allow them to build new reticuli in new environments as well. Moreover, they
 can modify the genetics of foreign lifeforms and generate new shaxthal
 development trees. This has been reported to be more successful in underground
 or underwater environments, rather than surface level.

 Their exoskeleton is mostly composed of a modified keratin - protein - with
 light metallic elements fixated in strings. The result is a highly resistant,
 yet very flexible armor, which is even more versatile thanks to the
 arthropoda-inspired overall structure."

I have a rough sketch of a portrait in my notes. If it may be useful to anyone,
ask me and I'll scan and upload it.

This is a Thunderstone/IftU faction. For details, ask one of the following people:
* Shadow Master/ShikadiLord
* DEPRECATED: Aethaeryn
* DEPRECATED: Eric S. Raymond (ESR)

NOTE: It is planned to introduce a Shaxthal Rayblade with a speaking role in the
enemy band, late in the campaign. However, I need to finish the Level 3 sprite
in order to do that.


3.2. Demons
-----------

A few clarifications:

1) I don't give a crap about the ethymology of the word or inherent meaning to
   particular religions. I did not have a better word to mean "Evil and Wicked
   Ones" in a generic manner and not sound awkward (this is, not troll-speak).

2) Like the orcs, these are humanoid-looking; they may have beast features, but
   those shouldn't make them depart from the 'humanoid' direction too much.

These creatures came from the underworld/'Inferno', a separate physical plane
that was sealed apart very early in the Universe's history. Their motivation to
destroy and kill things is the commands given by the Shadow Master/Argan, who
controls them and is even responsible for allowing them to exist in the real
world.

They have developed a military organization in which both males and females
may serve as fighters:

    L1                  L2                    L3                L4
   Demon      ->       Grunt        ->      Warrior     ->   Warlord
              ->       Zephyr

The L4 Warlord is not seen in this campaign except for the not-yet-Shaxthalized
Elyssa that strikes in scenario 13 (Face your Fate). The Zephyr is an exception
to the organization in that they have grown leathery wings; this makes them the
air-based attack force for the faction.

Ground-based demons use axes, knives, swords, or any other kind of blade as their
primary weapon. Air-based demons use their claws only, in order to allow them
to fly without the weapons' weight hampering their movement.

Ground-based demons develop magic powers that allow them to create very cold
and destructive air currents, while air-based ones have the ability to spit
fire only.

These creatures are taller than most elves and humans (a bit more than 2 metres
tall), but never too much.

The Demons also have their own war-beasts, the equivalent to the Trolls for the
Orcs: Imps.


3.3. Imps
---------

These suffer from many deformities that make them look barely human and more
beast-like. Their size varies with their age: younger imps have the size of
5-years-old human children, but older imps may be as tall as a tank. Their power
also varies in this way. Older imps may even develop limited magical abilities
(seen in the boss Armageddon Imp).

Their primary weapons are their sharp claws (melee) and poisonous saliva
(ranged).


BONUS
-----

The following characters appear in two cutscenes, and are members of the Grand
Council of the Aragwaithi. They speak along with Elynia, Galas, Mal Keshar and
Erathan. Not more than 5 lines per character, in general, so I'd consider a
waste of time to make portraits for them.

- Arnesius (A. Sorcerer): mostly silent, high wiseman.
- Delarel (A. Slayer): his only line is  "And so, the Council has spoken".
- Torancyn (A. Swordsmaster): this is the most stubborn Council member - he
    insists that going to war could be worse than waiting and hope that the
    enemy does not attack. TBH I based his personality upon another Wesnoth
    developer. :-)
- De'Arthian (A. A. Banner): military guy. The leader of the military, I suppose
    by his title and lines.
- Aleazar (A. Shield Guard): ye olde democrat guy.

- Illana (A. Sorceress): this is the only member that has a (placeholder)
    portrait already. The council not having a real leader, she is still the one
    that makes the important decissions.


A. APPENDIX
-----------

This section contains more detailed background story on certain characters that
either appear with active roles or are part of the plot, or mentioned by it, on
Invasion from the Unknown. This is something that prequel and sequel writers
should  read and understand beforehand, unless they want to "meet the wrath of
the cranky Shadow Master" (something a forum user wrote about him).



A.1. Elynia
-----------

A.1.1. Origins

Evidence indicates that she was born in the Lintanir Forest to an unknown
elvish wayfarer and a respected shaman of the region, Deniéth-Isal, descendant
from Queen Eryssa's bloodline; this around 1002 YW. Rumors indicate that the
elvish wayfarer may have been Kalenz - the ancient warrior cursed to roam the
lands for the rest of his eternal life.

FIXME: paragraph below.
It may have been possible that the curse casted upon her father, if he was truly
Kalenz, was somehow inherited by Elynia, causing her to have a similar destiny
after fighting perhaps the third greatest necromancer in the known history of
Wesnoth, if not counting Mal Keshar. (First being Mal Ravanal, and second being
Iliah-Malal).

A civil war initiated in the forest by elvish separatists ensues, and Elynia
is separated from her mother. She is adopted by the great Sorceress Niryone from
Wesmere, as she was sent with an army to put an end to the civil war in Lintanir.


A.1.2. Early achievements

In 1046 YW, Mizenwyn, a Dark Sorcerer, invaded the Great Continent, incited
civil war in Wesnoth, and eventually seized the throne, declaring himself
Supreme Leader of the First Empire of Wesnoth, and dissolving the Council of
Archmagi, declaring them traitors to the Empire.

Years later, most wesnothians have recognized him as the true emperor and bearer
of the Sceptre of Fire. The military is loyal to him, and he declares war upon
all the other races of the Great Continent.

After decades of struggle, humans of the northern lands, Elves, Orcs and
Dwarves forge a temporary alliance to take down Mizenwyn, dissolve the Empire of
Wesnoth and put an end to the threat of the Sceptre of Fire's power. All major
factions gather the forces to infiltrate Wesnoth and create distractions
on the frontiers.

The Ka'lian chooses Niryone and her druid disciple, Elynia, to sneak into Weldyn
with a group of warriors of various origins.

Although they manage to enter the main keep of Weldyn, most of the warriors were
defeated on the way. Niryone and Elynia face Mizenwyn almost alone, and
Niryone is slew by him. Elynia manages to dodge the Lich's attacks and grab the
Sceptre of Fire, using it to destroy him.


A.1.3. The Staff of Elynia-Niryone

Elynia takes her master's staff, as she says with her last breath that Elynia
has completed her training.

The war ends and the Council of War decrees the dissolution of the Empire of
Wesnoth, and names a new King, Delvhar I. (1091 YW)

The Council also deliberates whether the Sceptre of Fire should be destroyed or
not. It is clear that it is no longer safe to let humans keep it in their hands,
as Wesnoth has always been extremely prone corruption, and anyone who
wields the Sceptre of Fire is virtually invincible if they know how to use its
power- which Mizenwyn, fortunately, didn't.

Members of the Northern Alliance argue that the power of the Sceptre should not
be permanently rid of, as it proved extremely essential to defeat the Lich.
However, the Council finally decrees that the Sceptre's core must be
dissassembled and completely destroyed. Elynia volunteers to lead and monitor
a group of dwarvish crafters to achieve the task.

After a year, dwarvish experts manage to remove the screen shield and extract
the Ruby from the inside. Elynia is due to throw the Ruby at the lava falls of
the depths of Knalga. However, she neglects to do so and instead pays the
dwarves for attaching the ruby at the top of Niryone's staff, which she wielded.
Finally, she casts a spell to cause amnesia on the crafters.

After convincing the Ka'lian that she completed the original task, Elynia hides
herself away to keep the Ruby out of reach from anyone.


A.1.4. The Pursuit

In 1099 YW, the necromancer Gwiti Ha'atel launches a surprise attack on the
headquarters of the Council of Archmagi of Wesnoth and kills the leader of the
Council, using powers apparently obtained from the Tome of Crelanu.

Knowing that the Tome contained forbidden secrets that should not be learned by
evil forces such as the undead, the remaining members of the Council call upon
Elynia, by then known as a powerful elven shyde that either defeated or helped to 
defeat foes on many occasions, to pursue Ha'atel and defeat him.

When she confronts him, however, the necromancer proves to have the advantage
due to the techniques he learned from the Book. Elynia is mortally injured, and
the Necromancer abandons the battlefield having thought she would die for sure.
Mistake.

An unknown man finds her, and virtually restores parts of her body with magic
completely unknown to her. He identifies himself as Argan, a wayfarer who came
from "lands above the skies" searching for knowledge. Elynia notices that Argan
has the power of darkness, and knows that albeit his good intentions, she should
stay away from him, as such powers may damage and corrupt her soul. Argan gives
her an artifact, a "Thunderstone", which "gives good luck".

Elynia confronts the necromancer again, who has gathered yet more power in the
time being. However, this time she is not alone as Lord Aretu, leading the
Wesnothian army, and an orcish tribe under the banner of the Northern Alliance
are fighting Gwiti. He is cornered in the Estmark Hills.

- Gwiti Ha'atel: You back? I- didn't I...
- Elynia: Necromancer, your deeds against the Kingdom of Wesnoth will not go
  unpunished. I have returned to make sure, personally, that you never dare
  disturb the dead or the living again!
- Gwiti Ha'atel: And what will you do... kill me? You sure are a good comedian!
- Gwiti Ha'atel: Listen elf, I cannot help but wonder what is your bussiness
  with the human kingdom... nonetheless, I'll not commit the same mistake I did
  when I let you abandoned in agony; this time nothing will save you.
- Elynia: Perhaps. We'll see. Anyway, one of us will fall.
- Gwiti Ha'atel: And the other will live forever... and I'm going to make sure
  that so it will be.

During the last fight, as she faces the power of the undead alone and is almost
outpowered by them, the stone gives her energy and she discovers that she can
call upon the powers of Light directly.

As she defeats Gwiti Ha'atel, the necromancer speaks:

- Gwiti Ha'atel: I fall. As I said, I'm making sure... that the other will live
  forever. I curse you to see your efforts be destroyed by the pass of time. I
  curse you to see the world dry up and die. You will see how each of your
  beloved ones passes away with great pain, and you will want to have never
  messed with me.
- Gwiti Ha'atel: At the end, the pain of the loss will give you an eternity of
  agony.... haha... ha...


A.1.5. The Curse of Gwiti Ha'atel

Elynia would live forever until the world dried up and no more creatures would
inhabit it. Until that would occur, she'd see her beloved ones either turn
against her, or perish in tragic manners.

An unexpected consequence of the curse and death of the necromancer was that she
gained the power of necromancy, which she secretly put in practice ever
since.

From that time, to later, Elynia is known by Elves and Humans as the Lady of
Light, and by Dwarves and Orcs and the Source of Light.


A.1.6. Advisor to the Crown of Wesnoth

During 1157 YW, another Civil War ensues in the Kingdom of Wesnoth, and the 
kingdom dissolves and plunges into chaos yet again. This after two short years 
of reign from Delvhar II. Three main territories are established from the old 
Kingdom:

* State of Weldyn
* Eastern Akladia (former Estmarks)
* Aethenoth

During the following years, efforts are made to rebuild the Kingdom of Wesnoth.
Eventually, Vikren I ascends and builds the Second Empire of Wesnoth. This is
the start of the Vikren dinasty, which would reign for approximately 400 years
more.

However, Vikren I did not build the Empire alone - his advisor was Elynia, who
helped him emerge from the chaos without any command from the elvish Ka'lian or
the Northern Alliance. During this time, Argan meets Elynia again and she
ultimately marries him. They do not give birth to children, however, due to
a physical condition of Elynia.

In 1190 YW, Elensefar is integrated into the Empire again.

Elynia continues to be the advisor to the crown and the Vikren dinasty for all that
time, and she witnesses numerous trials of the Empire.


A.1.7. The Fall

Around 1542 YW, after a few years of riots created by a necromancer in the 
lands controlled by the Northern Alliance, , Emperor Vikren VIII demands the 
creation of a new sun to abolish the darkness insure the complete destruction 
of evil on the Continent. The High Council of Archmagi is gathered to cast a 
mountain into the skies. There are no records as to what mountain was used for 
this procedure.

The sun is named Naia by the elves, and Iven by wesnothians.

As Elynia was not asked for advice on this ocassion, she leaves her position as
permanent advisor to the crown and returns to Lintanir Forest. Despite this,
Wesnoth saw unprecedented years of peace after this event.

In 1791 YW, the wisemen of Wesmere create a portal to a different world and
meet Zhangor, an elvish sorcerer who assures to be a seer. Zhangor explains to 
them what atrocious things will happen next and demands to be treated as a god 
in exchange for protecting Wesmere.

In 1797 YW, Vikren XIII dies and, as there was no rightful heir, a nobleman,
Dantair, is named Emperor by the Council of Archmagi. Elynia gets word of this
and suspects that the decission was completely inappropriate.

In 1799 YW, the first major event that occurs is Wesmere's trade routes are
abolished and all political relations to the outer world cut off. By the end
of that year, Elynia gets word that Emperor Dantair of Wesnoth plans to lift a
second mountain to the sky.

Elynia makes haste to stop the mages and abort the procedure. However, she
arrives too late. The mountain falls onto Weldyn and initiates massive volcanic
eruptions and a great cataclysm that destroyed cities, lands, mountains, and
modified coastal lines on the whole world of Irdya.

All civilizations plunge into chaos - killing not only each other, but also
their own people.

The pollution created by the volcanoes and the fallen mountain causes cyclic
darkness periods on the whole world, and toxic chemicals destroy the remaining
vegetation and part of the survivors' population.

For the time being, the Wesmere Forest remains intact and Zhangor demands new blood
for sacrifices. Victims not only include those who sought shelter in Wesmere,
but also any creatures roaming the surrounding lands.


A.1.8. Eloh, the Lady of Light

Forests dry up and can no longer sustain the elvish civilization. Elves from the
Aethenwood and Lintanir Forests flee and seek refuge in Wesmere, reported to
remain mysteriously intact.

Elynia and Argan lead the group of elves from Lintanir.

They arrive at Wesmere and are ambushed. There were high casualties. Argan
manages to spy the Ka'lian and retrieve information on Zhangor.

The War of Wesmere begins, and for a year the elves from Aethenwood and
Lintanir manage to force the Wesmere inhabitants to retreat into the capital.
Eventually, Elynia and Argan invade the capital and confront Zhangor himself, who
reveals his true appearance and nature as a Lord of the Inferno.

The couple uses the powers of Light and Darkness combined for the first time in
recorded history and build the power of the Union. They tear Zhangor's body
to pieces, seal them with powerful spells, and send them back to Inferno,
closing the portal while at it. The valley of Wesmere, however, was completely
destroyed, and reduced the remaining elvish population to less than a tenth of
what it was before approaching Wesmere.

All dark priests and warriors but one are executed and incinerated. The
exception was Anlindë, who convinced the High Lord of Lintanir, Telchior, to
retreat to the Far North, assuring that she had seen a valley that still
sustained life. Quetor'el of Aethenwood returned South instead.

Quetor'el would later establish in an Oasis with his people and build the
Quenoth village. The story of Eloh (Elynia's nickname) would be told amongst
them for generations, and their habits would adapt to life on the desert.


A.1.9. Results of the Curse of Elynia

The first one to be affected by her curse is Argan - after hundreds of years of
being her husband, Argan is corrupted and enslaved by Uria, and forced to fight
Elynia. At the end, to "save the world", she slays him.

The second one is Galas, her fianceé after IftU. Galas is willing to sacrifice
himself to protect his friends, and her beloved Elynia, so he distracts the evil
members of the Iron Triad so the rest of the group can escape the fortress.
Later on, Elynia has to fight Galas' corpse, devoid of soul and mind.

The third one is Mal Keshar, her friend. After they defeat Ivyel, they go to try
to defeat Mal Hekuba. They accidentally unstabilize the reactors powering the
shaxthal hive, so Mal Keshar stops Hekuba from escaping, so that the ensuing
explosion destroys them, and the Ruby of Fire, permanently. He orders Elynia to
escape, reminding her that Kri'tan needs her protection. Elynia escapes the hive
badly harmed, and Mal Keshar is definitively and permanently anihilated.


A.2. Character abilities and attacks
------------------------------------

Although not all of these abilities, attacks or powers are used in IftU or AtS,
characters may theoretically use any of the following if a specific situation or
plotline requires.


A.2.1. Elynia

Level 1: (Elvish Shaman)

- Heals+4

Level 2: (Elvish Druid)

- Heals+8
- Cures
- Sylvan Essence (enhanced control of nature elements)

Level 3: (Sylvan Warden)

- Glamour
- Ruby of Fire
    - Undead/Raise Walking Corpse
- Skirmisher
- Teleport/Shine (teleportation over long distances, acquired during AtS from
                  a spell glyph at Zocthanol)
- Mystic Fire (magical attack)

Level 4: (Lady of Light)

- Glamour/Metamorphosis (complete shapeshifting, acquired during IftU from a
                         spell glyph at Wesmere)
- Ruby of Fire/Fire Immunity
- Mystic Fire 2 (magical attack)
- Thunder (magical attack)
- Avatar of Light (magical attack, requires the Globe of Light)

Level 5: (Light of the Union)

- Union
- Ruby of Fire/Portal
- Ruby of Fire/Firestorm
- Devastating Thunder

Level 6:

- Union 2

Level 7:

- Union 3
- Ruby of Fire/Plane Merge
- Teleport/Metaplane (superb teleport from and to anywhere)


A.2.2. Elyssa

Level 1:

- Unknown

Level 2:

- Unknown

Level 3: (Chaos Fire Sorceress)

- Teleport
- Demon Summoning
- Heals+4
- Shaxthal healing
- Fire Resistace
- Dispel Glamour

Level 4:

- Shadow of Chaos
- Shaxthal regeneration
- Drain
- Plague/Shaxthal L0
- Noctum

Level 5: (Chaos Warlord)

- Fire Immunity
- Dispel Undead
- Noctum 2

Level 6:

- Demon regeneration
- Shadow of Uria
- Fire of Uria
- Shaxthal spawning
- Demon teleport
- Dispel faerie
- Arcane resistance
- Massive drain 2
- Mind invasion

Level 7:

- Eternal Darkness
- Teleport/Metaplane
- Corrupt Soul
- Mind invasion 2

Level 8: (Guardian of Darkness)

- Bind soul
- Eternal Abyss
- Void
- Arcane immunity
- Noctum 3


A.2.3. Argan

Level 1:

- Unknown

Level 2:

- Unknown

Level 3:

- Teleport
- Demon summoning
- Heals+8
- Shaxthal regeneration
- Dispel glamour
- Dispel faerie
- Noctum
- Union

Level 4:

- Shadow of Uria
- Shaxthal spawning
- Demon teleport
- Demon regeneration
- Wrath of Uria
- Corrupt soul
- Eternal Darkness

Level 5: (Chaos Warlord)

- Union 2
- Corrupt soul 2
- Demon spawning
- Dispel undead
- Eternal darkness

Level 6: (Master of Darkness <corrupted>)

- Void
- Union 3
- Eater of Souls
- Eternal Abyss
- Arcane resistance



# Footnotes

(1) though that does not imply that her powers rely strictly on the Union.
(2) see scenario 10's finale
